# Master-Thesis-Crowdfinding
The experiments of this thesis were conducted with two Android prototype applications. The source code for the applications is publicly available in this  repository.

**Abstract:**
Recovering lost bicycles in a city can be a difficult task to overcome and it can be compared to finding a needle in a haystack. Owners, as well as bicycle rental companies like Donkey Republic, can benefit from technologies which can aid in this task. This thesis will examine how smartphones automatically can assist in locating bicycles augmented with Bluetooth. The location of the bicycle is defined as a circular area. To locate a bicycle, an Android prototype and an algorithm is developed. These combines location data from multiple smartphones in order to estimate the smallest area possible. Each location data point is generated with two different methods, FIXED<sup>m</sup> and RSSI<sub>m</sub>, which is developed for the purpose. FIXED<sub>m</sub> uses a distance between the smartphone and the bicycle of 20 meters and RSSI<sup>m</sup> calculates a distance based on Bluetooth signal strength. The prototype is used to analyze which of the two methods perform the best in locating bicycles in the city. The results show that FIXED<sup>m</sup> is a better option for locating bicycles because it estimates areas down to 20 meters of radius in size where the bicycle is certain to be inside. The thesis suggests that the Crowdfinding algorithm can be implemented on third-party platforms. This will increase the size of the crowd which will increase the chance of finding a lost bicycle.

**Keywords:** 
Crowdfinding, Localization, Android, Crowdsourcing, Pervasive Computing, Bluetooth Low Energy, BLE, RSSI, Network-assisted location.
